For years, WDOL gov has been the primary
source for accessing wage rates and
fringe benefit standards used in federal
procurement; however, by the summer of 2019
WDOL.gov will be fully retired and will no longer be accessible at its current web address.
WDOL.gov and nine other legacy systems
are currently being
modernized, streamlined, and integrated
into the new beta.SAM.gov.
beta.SAM.gov is the new home for all of the older systems' data and functionality once they are retired.
All of WDOL.gov's data on minimum wage
and fringe benefit requirements
has been collected and organized under the data set Wage Determinations
within beta.SAM.gov.
If you are wondering whether you should be using wage determinations,
the primary users are
government awarding officials and
entities providing services or
construction labor to the federal government.
Before we get started, if you look at the
left side of this video you will find
all the topics that are going to be
covered in this video
with the top being the first
and the bottom the last.
As we progress through the topics, you'll notice that the current topic is highlighted in light blue
and the completed topics will change to a dark gray,
so if you are looking for information on a specific topic just fast forward or rewind the video
until the topic you are interested in is
highlighted.
Now, let's begin with a quick tour of beta.SAM.gov.
Whether you navigate
here through the redirect from WDOL.gov,
or you navigate here directly,
this home screen is going to be the central place through which you do everything on beta.SAM.gov.
The central piece of beta.SAM.gov is the search bar, which will allow you to navigate and access
all of the data and functionality in one convenient
place.
If for some reason the search bar is ever hidden from view,
just click the magnifying glass icon at the top of the screen and the search bar will appear.
We'll discuss more later on how to use the search bar to find particular wage determinations,
but for now we'll just note
that by selecting an option from the drop-down menu connected to the search bar and clicking search
you can navigate to that particular beta.SAM.gov section
Next to the magnifying glass icon at the
top of the screen is a small icon
comprised of three lines called the
"hamburger menu".
By clicking this icon you will activate a drop-down menu with a few important links that you should know about.
The first is the learning center link.
By clicking the learning center icon you will be navigated to the space within beta.SAM.gov that will serve as
your primary source of FAQ, contact,
policy, and procedural reference information.
If you have any questions about the site, please first check the Learning Center for information.
In addition to beta.SAM.gov reference material, the Learning Center also contains
all relevant reference materials and FAQs from each legacy site including WDOL.gov.
By clicking the hamburger menu again,
you will see a link titled workspace, which is the second important section that all users should be familiar with.
Your workspace is the central place where you can manage all of your account settings
for features like requests, alerts, save searches, roles, and your profile.
Just as a note before we click, the appearance of your workspace will vary based on your user roles
and whether or not you are logged in,
so your workspace may look slightly
different from the one shown here in the recording.
Here in your workspace you can see one of the options under your profile is "followings".
We are going to discuss this more in depth later in the "follow / subscribe" section of the video,
but while we're here, we think it's important to note that
your WDOL.gov wage determination subscriptions will not transfer over to beta.SAM.gov automatically.
You will be able to use beta.SAM.gov's "follow" feature to track wage determinations and receive alerts,
but you will have to reselect all of those that you would like to follow.
Service Contract act, or SCA, wage determinations set the minimum wage rates that must be
followed by all entities providing applicable services on contracts greater than or equal to $2,500 in value.
To locate SCA wage determinations, navigate to beta.SAM.gov
click the drop down menu connected to the search bar,
and select "Wage Determinations".
If you know either the ID number or any of the keywords associated with the wage determination
that you are looking for, enter them in the search bar,
otherwise, leave the field blank.
Click search and you'll be taken to the wage determination section of beta.SAM.gov.
To narrow your search to only SCA wage
determination listings,
navigate to the left side of your screen and scroll down until you find "Wage Determination Types",
and then click the circle next to
service contract act (or SCA).
Your search results now contain only SCA listings.
It is important to remember that SCA listings are determined by county,
so you can use the filters on the left to narrow your search.
Another important thing to note about SCA wage determinations is the final number:
this number is indicative of fringe benefits requirements for employees.
If the SCA wage determination ends in an even number, it means that
the wage determination specifies a minimum average fringe benefit value across all employees as a whole.
If the SCA wage determination ends in an odd number, it means that
the wage determination specifies a minimum fringe benefit value for each employee individually.
If there is not an active wage determination for a particular category of work in general
or in your particular locality, you can request the creation of a wage determination
by clicking the link that says "here", in the center of the light blue box below the search bar.
You will be navigated to complete and submit the Department of Labor's E98 form.
Once completed and submitted the Department of Labor will respond directly to you,
notifying you of the acceptance or denial of your wage determination request.
Davis-Bacon Act, or DBA, wage
determinations set the minimum wage rates
that entities must pay to workers who are providing labor to the federal government
involving construction alteration or repair of public buildings or Public Works,
including painting or decorating.
To locate DBA wage determinations, navigate to beta.SAM.gov,
click the drop down menu connected to the search bar, and select wage determinations.
If you know either the ID number or any keywords associated with the wage determination
that you are looking for,
enter them into the search bar, otherwise leave the field blank.
Click search and you will be taken to the wage determination section of beta.SAM.gov.
To narrow your search to only DBA
wage determination listings,
navigate to the side of your screen scroll down until you find "Wage Determination Types",
and click the circle next to "davis-bacon
act".
Your search results now contain only DBA listings.
It is important to remember that DBA listings are determined by county and type of Labor,
so you can use the filters on the left of the screen to narrow your search
by first selecting the relevant state, county, and then type of labor from the drop down menu.
If there isn't an active wage determination for a particular category of work in general
or in your particular locality,
you can request a creation of a
wage determination
by clicking the link that says "here" in the center of the light blue box below the search bar you
will be navigated to complete and submit
Department of Labor standard form E98.
Once completed and submitted, the Department of Labor will respond directly to you,
notifying you of the acceptance or denial of your wage determination request.
Collective Bargaining Agreements, or CBAs, are used in negotiations for the benefit of several collective interests,
and they usually lay out wage scales working hours, training, health and safety,
overtime, grievance mechanisms, and rightsto participate in workplace or community affairs.
To locate CBA wage determinations, navigate to beta.SAM.gov,
click the drop down menu connected to
the search bar, and select wage determinations.
If you know either the ID number or any keywords associated
with the wage determination that you are
looking for,
enter them into the search bar, otherwise leave the field blank.
Click search and you will be taken to the wage determination section of beta.SAM.gov.
To narrow your search to only CBA wage determination listings,
navigate to the left side of your screen, scroll down until you find "Wage Determination Types",
and click the circle next to "Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA)".
Your search results now contain only CBA listings.
If you need to create a Collective Bargaining Agreement, you must first create an account,
if you have not already done so,
and then log in to beta.SAM.gov using a recognized government email address.
Once you have registered and are logged
in, click the hamburger menu
and navigate to your workspace.
Scroll down the page and you will find a section called "Collective Bargaining Agreements".
Click "Create a new CBA" and fill out the form that you are navigated to,
and once you have all of the information input click publish.
If you already have any published CBAs,
you can navigate to your workspace while
logged in
and scroll down until you find the option "Revise an existing CBA"
Click this option and enter the number of your CBA
and you will be taken to a form
where you can revise your CBA.
One of the features of WDOL.gov was the
ability to follow a wage determination
and receive updates on any changes made
to that particular wage determination.
Unfortunately, your current WDOL subscriptions will not be transferred to beta.SAM.gov;
however, the subscription process is simple on beta.SAM.gov through a function called "follow".
In order to use follow, you must be logged in to beta.SAM.gov.
To follow a wage determination,
navigate to the wage determination section of beta.SAM.gov by selecting wage determinations
from the drop down menu connected to the
search bar and clicking search.
If you know the ID of the wage determination that you need or a relevant keyword you can enter those
into the search field;
however, you can still navigate to the wage determination section by leaving the field blank.
Once in the wage determination section of the website, click the wage determination
for which you'd like to receive updates
and locate and click the follow button located in the upper right corner of the listing.
You will now receive notifications regarding any updates to that wage determination.
If you need to modify your wage determination followings,
you can click the hamburger menu to the left of the magnifying glass on the top of the screen
and then select workspace from the menu that appears,
Once in your workspace select followings from the my profile section.
You can then use the options in this table to change the frequency of the updates you receive
or to unfollow wage determinations that are no longer relevant to you.
To find the DBA crosswalk select wage determinations from the drop-down connected to the center search bar
and click search.
Towards the top of the screen, below the search bar, there will be a light blue box
with two links toward the bottom.
Click DBA Crosswalk.
The DBA crosswalk lists the new DBA wage determination values
along with the previous DBA wage determination values.
If you need to verify wage determinations from previous years you can go to the rollover table.
To find DBA Revisions, select wage determinationsfrom the drop down menu connected to the  search bar
and click search.
Near the topof the screen below the search bar there will be a light blue box
with two links toward the bottom.
Select "DBAs to be Revised".
Wage determinations are revised
on a regular basis and reviewed
periodically as new data becomes
available.
The expected date of the next revision is included at the top of the list.
Wage determinations due to be revised are kept here as a separate link
to keep contracting communities informed about the specific wage determinations
that will likely be revised soon,
To learn more, make sure to visit beta.SAM.gov, and while you're there,
let us know what you think using the
on-screen feedback box.
Additionally, stay up to date on all beta.sam.gov and IAE systems news by
following our blog on the IAE space on
GSA interact.
Thank you.